Lilliana Robinson: Cool. so I'll go ahead and share my screen.
Lilliana Robinson: Alright.
Lilliana Robinson: There we go.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay. So in job suite on synthesis, we're just going to review a few things, and then at the end, we're gonna go through a few exercises, and then I'll show you what great looks like. So that's our agenda here.
Lilliana Robinson: Neil, if you wanna call out questions in the chat. That would be awesome.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: sure.
Lilliana Robinson: So what we're expecting in week 5 is one to 3 synthesized jobs to be done statements. And the key here is that each supported by detailed evidence.
Lilliana Robinson: you'll hear us reference, your synthesis of jobs to be done as your why before the Y or your why behind the why people use both words? That is because Jason freed coined that phrase when he had Bob, Mesta, Neil, and a few others do jobs to be done with him, which we hinted at in one of our first lectures, and he wrote up a blog post I'm going to show you later, called the Y behind the Y.
Lilliana Robinson: The whole purpose of that was to synthesize everything that he noticed, and then put it into clusters. So people call jobs feed on synthesis. They call it clustering. They call it the Y behind the Y they call it analysis. And then the next phase after this that you'll hear people talk about implications and prototyping. So you're making your synthesis now and then. It's like, what does that mean for your business? And if you get through your why behind the Y,
Lilliana Robinson: and it's amazing. And you're ready to move forward and you finish that to do list that's in base camp. You actually unlock an implications and prototyping session with Neil, which we've done with a few founders. And it's 2 h we really get into the nitty gritty of what this means for your business, what changes you should make, what experiments you should run, and that is ro where the real magic happens. That's how it can directly inform your roadmap
Lilliana Robinson: on both product and marketing like we talked about.
Lilliana Robinson: So what does it mean, each supported by detailed evidence. And honestly, what does it mean? Synthesized JTV. Statements.
Lilliana Robinson: So
Lilliana Robinson: for the evidence piece for each of your jobs feed on statements that are synthesized. So clusters, you're gonna identify clusters and write a statement, an aggregated statement based on the patterns that you've seen. And we're gonna get into that today, but each one will be supported by the following evidence.
Lilliana Robinson: your foreforces summary the motivations behind it competitors for this specific segment. So what is this current. This group currently used to solve this struggle
Lilliana Robinson: and quotes it's very important to support every proposed J-t. Statement with actual quotes from interviews.
Lilliana Robinson: I complimented a few of you in your checkpoint presentations, because some of you actually used quotes already without being told which was awesome. The best data you can use as evidence are the words of your actual customers that you interview, or whoever you interviewed, even if they were not your customers.
Lilliana Robinson: competitors. Let's think back to the milkshake video something that Clay Christensen says in the milkshake video, you'd be surprised. But
Lilliana Robinson: the things that the person hired other than the milkshake was not something else that we would classify as like a traditional dessert. It was a banana, it was a bagel and cream cheese with. It was things like that.
Lilliana Robinson: That's why it's really important to put the competitors for what people are currently using in this specific segment.
Lilliana Robinson: Sorry I'm meeting keep. Okay.
Lilliana Robinson: you're also going to include a 4 forces summary and the motivation summary. And we'll go over this today just to refresh.
Lilliana Robinson: So refresher number one. This is the formal jobs to be done. Statement when II want to. So I can't.
Lilliana Robinson: A couple of call-outs here the when I should be extremely specific.
Lilliana Robinson: I think, in the checkpoints. Some feedback that I have for everyone here is everyone's. When could be a lot more could be a lot stronger, really set us in that specific circumstance that your customer is in. Of course, when you aggregate them, when you come up with a conglomeration and make a statement for that cluster where you've identified a pattern, it will
Lilliana Robinson: inherently be a little bit more high level. And that's okay. You'll see that today
Lilliana Robinson: for the I want to. This is huge, because there's really no excuse here, even in the clustering. The I want to should not magically have your product spotted in there. Your customers that you interview
Lilliana Robinson: or your non customers, whoever you're interviewing, you really shouldn't have been discussing your product at all. So if they're feeding words that are clearly from your mouth describing your product. We can tell that it's kind of like a biased interview.
Lilliana Robinson: The I want statement should be in their words what progress they want to make.
Lilliana Robinson: and then that's their motivation. And so I can. That's the expected outcome. What is the end? State
Lilliana Robinson: that one is pretty self-explanatory? A lot of you got that right.
Lilliana Robinson: let's go over the forces. So a few mistakes I saw in the checkpoints were that not everybody made the forces in the directions that they go. So push and pull are forces that are driving the interviewee toward the switch moment toward the new solution.
Lilliana Robinson: Anxieties and habits are pulling them away from that new solution and keeping them in the old way or the status quo.
Lilliana Robinson: So I saw some people write some habits or anxieties that were like moving the person toward the new solution. Those are actually just pushes and pulls.
Lilliana Robinson: Habits and anxieties are things that keep them from the new solution. So if you wrote something that they were like worried about, and anxieties that they were worried about for the old solution. That's really just a push.
Lilliana Robinson: because anxieties are things that they're worried about with a new solution. Does anyone have questions about the forces? Those were the main issues I saw on the checkpoint.
Vincent Lucero: Can you maybe rephrase that one because II agree with you. That was kind of like one of my misunderstandings. I know I still don't even have to explain it. Try to understand. You maybe try phrasing a different way.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, absolutely
Lilliana Robinson: so. And thanks for asking the same. Because I'm sure other people have that question, too. So let's give an example. We were talking about switching cars. So I'm gonna switch from just a regular toyota to ultima Sedan to a Tesla.
Lilliana Robinson: What are the forces behind that? Let me make some up.
Lilliana Robinson: One push could be that my car is broken. My car does not work, and so I'm looking. I'm actively looking for a new car. One poll might be that all my friends have Teslas, or like II really follow the Tesla brand on social media, and I think it's super cool. Another poll could be like Trevor's. I want to be better for the environment. That is a poll, because I'm not feeling a pain that is an
Lilliana Robinson: allure of a better life, a better version of myself that I'm chasing after those are pushes and polls.
Lilliana Robinson: an example of what actually, I'll tell you what to do, and I'll tell you what not to do. I think that would help. So the correct way to do habit and anxiety
Lilliana Robinson: one habit may be. I'm used to using gasoline.
Lilliana Robinson: I feel extremely. This is actually me. I feel like I don't know where the chargers would be. I'm not really sure how to do that. I live in an apartment that's kind of old. I don't really think they have charges in the garage. I don't even know where to start with that. I don't want to, Tesla.
Lilliana Robinson: old way. Anxiety price right? Teslas, are expensive.
Lilliana Robinson: I don't know if I could shell that out. Maybe I could buy a used one. But, like, honestly, just looking at the sticker price of the Tesla, I feel extremely anxious. I'm gonna just buy the used
Lilliana Robinson: ultima of the next year, or something like, instead of getting a Tesla. My car is still broken, but I'll just get like a used car that's more similar to my car, because I don't want to pay all that money. That's correct.
Lilliana Robinson: What would be incorrect in this situation would be saying
Lilliana Robinson: a habit or anxiety that is actually pushing you away from the old solution and toward the new solution. So if I had an anxiety about
Lilliana Robinson: the planet dying. If I had an anxiety about like wanting to be better for the climate that is incorrect.
Lilliana Robinson: because that would be pushing me toward the test flow. but an anxiety inherently like as a force moves you away from the new solution.
Lilliana Robinson: So you should revisit that and like, think twice, because that would actually be a poll. Does that make more sense?
Vincent Lucero: Yeah, that actually really helps. So like the one good example you mentioned, like the charging. And I have a Tesla so like range anxiety, the idea that, like, I don't know if there's gonna be charger and toggle, for instance, is like a big one, right. Is that actually an anxiety in this framework?
Lilliana Robinson: Is that pushing you forward or away from the switch moment I think it moves you towards the old way. Because if you worry about there being a charge and pretty sure it's moving you backwards like, I'm just gonna use a normal gasoline car. So it is the correct direction. I just wanted to like, I was asking you as a quiz that that's exactly right. Yeah, yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: it's moving you toward the old solution. So that is, in fact, an anxiety.
Lilliana Robinson: And remember, these are just titles that we give to the forces. But it's important to keep the correct direction, or else you're analyzing the forces in the incorrect manner.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Liliana, can we? Go back? One slide to the formula you shared? Yeah, I just wanted to make sure that the point you made about the motivation piece in the middle here is made abundantly clear, because
Neal Sáles-Griffin: I don't think we've ever had a time where we've said it in this forum, and we don't end up seeing the thing that you're cautioning people not to do still translate in their statements.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I guess I just wanna make it clear like it's it's that we saw the trap happen like half of the time
Neal Sáles-Griffin: when when you all presented a week and a half ago.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So the trap is you're putting in the features and functionality of your
Neal Sáles-Griffin: solution
Neal Sáles-Griffin: as the motivation of the customer statement. So just repeating what Liliana said.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Make sure that it goes well beyond you, using your own words to describe what you think. The customer is saying that they need. and instead, either using their words
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for understanding as hard as you possibly can, and as clearly as you possibly can at hand, their underlying motivation for why they want to move forward with making progress towards that outcome that may or may not include references to the functionality in your solution.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But just be really clear that you don't fall into that trap.
Lilliana Robinson: then it would be a coincidence if it did reference functionalities in your solution, not them specifically naming it because they know what your product does.
Lilliana Robinson: The whole point of that is just bias like, we don't want to introduce bias. And that's why we're telling you about this chat.
Lilliana Robinson: Ally?
Lilliana Robinson: Oh, yeah, both of you.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Okay, yeah, so in our case, we don't have a product. Right? So we were interviewing about competitors.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: And we heard it specifically from many of them. I want a solution that is cheap. That is easy to use. That is simple. And so, as I'm revisiting because you gave me that comment right? Like you're talking about features, you're not telling me what they want, I'm trying to revisit it and and think of you know why they want that. And it's because they want a profitable business, and they are not sure about how many users they're gonna have.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Is that the right review to be to be doing?
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, I think for competitors
Lilliana Robinson: it is a little bit different. So the switch moment is them hiring the competitor. Is that correct?
Lilliana Robinson: So things that that would be pushing them toward the new solution. The whole purpose of interviewing competitors when you don't have interviewees is you're treating that competitor almost as like it's a proxy for your company. So it really doesn't change very much in the analysis.
Lilliana Robinson: Does that make sense?
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Can I clarify deeply? Yes, yes, it does. I'm I'm just thinking that they, when they speak of specific features that they wanted in the product, and that's why. And they claim well, I chose this one over this one because it is easier to use, and I knew that my customers would appreciate that.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: So
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med:  is, is that? Is that good enough? Or
Neal Sáles-Griffin: usually not? It's usually not good enough. Yeah, that's usually not good enough. If somebody says, oh, it! This is easier to use.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: That's not the detail or specific or describing, like what they're actually like giving up. So you should ask a little bit more about like what wasn't good enough about what they were using? Or do they get stuck? What was the issue there? Whenever people use these blanket terms like easier to use. Most of you all have easy to use in one of your quadrants
Neal Sáles-Griffin: as one of your lawyers, to just recognize, like how undifferentiated you are by using such high level language and accepting that, I would employ you to dig deeper as you talk to them, to understand what they were actually considering as a difference or trade off
Lilliana Robinson: Ali. Something that might be helpful is like really digging into the timeline. So it's not just like what were the features that made it easier? Where were you? What was going on like? What exactly, was the issue? And how did something help you make progress in that moment. A great example. Are you in team? Starboard? Aware? I think you are right?
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. So if you saw Valeria's presentation? But she gave a great description of a mom carrying a baby going to the post office and having to click through a bunch of different stuff at the post office like. She doesn't even have hands. She doesn't know how windows works. Instead, she's on her phone and it's 4 clicks in the same situation like the next week. Instead, they're using thriftshare
Lilliana Robinson: and 4 clicks. Later she has the same label so like that differentiation. Even if thrift ship wasn't their company, it was a competitor that would tell you so much about the customer and inform the way that you would build your product.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: last point on this one trick to help with that, especially the easy to use piece that you mentioned is just ask them what makes something hard.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So so to to provide the contract. Those that you're saying it's easy to use. When is it, Hardy?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What the thing you used before? What made that so hard?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So just put them in the place where they're describing what the meaning of the words are to them rather than you taking their word for it.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Okay, thank you. That helps a lot. Thanks.
Lilliana Robinson: Awesome.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay. So another thing that we're gonna review, let me see if I have it right here, social, functional and emotional. So we haven't talked about this in a bit. But every single motivation. This is like a second dimension, so motivations can be pushes, pulls, habits, or anxieties. But there's this other dimension. You can plot on the on there
Lilliana Robinson: of the customer's motivations, which are what energy was it? Was it emotional, functional, or social? And, to be clear, all 4 of these forces could have functional, social, or emotional, and we named some during the mattress interview. I actually have some that I'll pull up in another slide.
Lilliana Robinson: So, to be clear, all of them could be any of the 3. This is a separate dimension to think about the energy and the forces.
Lilliana Robinson: social. how others see me. This has anything to do with
Lilliana Robinson: other people. Social media, the way that they are perceived by a group of people or people in their lives.
Lilliana Robinson: Functional.
Lilliana Robinson: functional is like another word for physical that could be like their own body, that could be their space.
Lilliana Robinson: Those are usually the major 2. It could also be like something not working like my car. Literally braking is functional, but also me, being restless in my sleep and like feeling tired, is also functional, and we have emotional, which, in my opinion, is the strongest one, and emotional is self-explanatory. It's how I feel.
Lilliana Robinson: Let's take Allie's. Yeah, David.
David Akinyemi (he/him): have you seen like any relationship between
David Akinyemi (he/him): these energies and like parts of the statement like.
David Akinyemi (he/him): like, is there like a relationship between one to one? Or is it kinda like emotional could be in any part of the one eye versus I want to versus like I can. I kind of thing.
Lilliana Robinson: These are the Mo. These are all 3, the motivations, so most of these will lie in the when I, or sorry in this, I want to, the when I is the circumstance.
Lilliana Robinson: and a little bit of this will be in there. But just to color. The circumstance that I want to part is where these will lie, like all 3 of them, really except for in the one eye, when you're setting up the situation sometimes these are relevant details as well. The so I can part at the end, doesn't usually have these motivations. That's much more of like the progress they're trying to make.
Lilliana Robinson: Neil. Did you want to answer that, too. That was a really interesting question, David.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, I was gonna use a fancy word in that. II see them as orthogonal
Neal Sáles-Griffin: but I know lots of people like to use that word these days. But I mean it in that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: there's there's independence between the 2. But at the same time relevance in each face. So even if the with the desired outcome or expected outcome, think about that. You know the the how other teamy pieces are really easy. One about the example that Liliana uses. The test flow right?
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So some people want to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: demonstrate what they have as a form of either status or fitting in socially. So you can think of. You know, the applicability here can definitely be.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It's arguable that it's applicable across all 3 buckets.
Lilliana Robinson: I think all 3 this and the forces and the jobs to be done statement are all in that relationship that Neil was describing.
Lilliana Robinson: Brian.
Brian | Circle+: So I'm just curious. I'm just. There's my malicious intent to my question. I'm just curious. Where does addiction, for example, fall? Is it possible that it falls under the true functional and emotional energy.
Lilliana Robinson: like, I'm addicted to playing a game for me. Yeah, addiction
Lilliana Robinson: addition to what
Brian | Circle+: addiction to the product, you know. Say, for example, social media, gaming, etc.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it it. I think it's largely dependent on the specific situation. So again, here we are entering this world of generalizing conceptually at a high level, and the whole point of this is to show you how different things can be at the low level, depending on who the person is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and what the the thing is. So I would caution us not to drift too far up in conceptualizing categories here, and instead going for an individual
Brian | Circle+: these forces are at play. To what extent are they at play for one person versus another?
Brian | Circle+: Budget?
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. Cause when you said that, we're addicted, and you gave examples of what they could be addicted to. Like. All 3 of your examples, in my opinion, would have will, like laid in 3 different
Lilliana Robinson: social, functional or emotional pieces. Here
Lilliana Robinson: also, addiction is really also just a switch moment where they're continuing to come back
Lilliana Robinson: to say advice or product.
Lilliana Robinson: So you can just treat each individual instance as a higher.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah. But the real trick here is that all 3 of these forces are at play all the time. They're just at different levels
Neal Sáles-Griffin: of of importance and severity for any given person.
Lilliana Robinson: It's just like the 4 forces, how they're always at play in different levels.
Lilliana Robinson: Allie.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Yeah, just just to give an example. To see how how you will categorize this a lot of the the
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: therapies we interviewed. We're talking about, you know, wanting to have trusted opinions around the product before they actually test it or use it.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: So there's there's something in the back of that which is, you know, the the scientific. a a robustness and recognition in the in the medical community. I was thinking, that is
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: both social and functional, because they want
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: the device to be reliable. They don't want to hurt their patience, but at the same time is like, I want to use something that is accepted by the community.
Lilliana Robinson: How would you see that I see so functional doesn't have to mean. like the efficacy of something
Lilliana Robinson: functional means a lot more like in the space, the physical world. I would categorize that as mainly social, although there are, I can name things from all 3. From what I'm hearing from you.
Lilliana Robinson: So that sounds like a situation of one person where all 3 apply, because all 3 apply for every person with an emphasis on social for that person.
Lilliana Robinson: And of course, like there's emotional piece right? They would don't want to fail their clients. Functional is like the physical nature of like. Does this thing work, especially because you're dealing with hardware. And then social, of course, has already been set.
Lilliana Robinson: So all 3 apply there. And yeah, we can identify the emphasis on social
Neal Sáles-Griffin: yeah. And I have a I have a quick example for functional. It might help color this, too. I actually shared this example with Aliana during the retreat.  There were some companies at 1 point that were very much outspoken and anti uber
Neal Sáles-Griffin: for a variety of reasons, and at the time they would say, Okay, well, we're gonna support Lyft instead of Uber for expending. You know, our rides for our employees.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And one of the issues that I saw and identified with that. And I actually gave this feedback to one of these companies
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is where I was living in Chicago.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: For safety reasons.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The number of Uber
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Uber drivers available
Neal Sáles-Griffin: in the area where I was either getting dropped off, or friends and family were were much more than left, so there was a functional limitation towards
Neal Sáles-Griffin: using one tool versus another.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: even though for other reasons there was a desire to support one business. The functional reality was, if you wanted to get a ride and get dropped off in a certain place you had to use. Uber.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that's just one quick example.
Lilliana Robinson: Mitchell, before I take your question, Lisa, in the chat I would I would disagree with how you're slotting the forces in certain places, and I would caution you. There aren't certain places that
Lilliana Robinson: specific forces are supposed to go in the jobs feed them statement. So I think if you take it the way that you just wrote it out. It may lead to incorrect JTV. Statements.
Lilliana Robinson: so I would caution what you wrote. Therecha.
Port Labs - Central Conference Room: Thank you, J. Lo, for the unmute. Alright shout out, so yeah. I was just thinking about the how in our interviews
Port Labs - Central Conference Room: I noticed these forces, especially in the anxiety I mean these energy sorry, especially in the anxiety side of things like, for example, some users were saying, you know I was afraid of using Cicada because I was worried that my audience would perceive me as being transactional money oriented, not in it for the art and other people were saying I was worried that it wouldn't work that the you know, the you know, the product wasn't going to
Port Labs - Central Conference Room: synchronize while the merch wasn't going to arrive, you know, on time. So those are, you know? clear representations in my mind of these energies that play in a different quadrant in the anxiety squad.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, that was an example of both social and functional. Right?
Port Labs - Central Conference Room: Yeah, the first also show the second one was functionality. Yeah, those are 2 separate 2 separate people. Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: that was such a great point, which I'm glad you understand. All 3 of these can be in the bottom 2 quadrants as well. So these are not only motivations pushing you toward the new solution mirrored just gave us a great example of a social and functional anxiety.
Lilliana Robinson: So the anxiety is pushing you toward the status quo. It's almost like you could graph like a 4 by 3, and you could have every single thing that happens to your interviewee could be either social, functional, or emotional, and either have an anxiety. Pusher poll, you could plot it because every single one could be one of these.
Lilliana Robinson: That was a great call out merchant who else had their hand up. Art, are you all good?
Arthur Fields: Yeah, I'm good. It was Marcia. If you wanna gave that example I would have had a follow up question for Neil in regards to like what was the emotional energy from for that uber example he gave us. But it's cool. Marsha gave us a great example. So
Arthur Fields: I mean, he didn't give the emotional part. It was just a function of social energy piece.
Lilliana Robinson: right? But we can deduce right? What an emotional would be that would move you toward a status quo.
Arthur Fields: Right? Great. So I'm good. I'm good. Thanks.
Lilliana Robinson: Awesome. Kevin.
Kevin: Yeah, I just wanted to put another perspective just also on the the uber piece. You know, Neil had mentioned about from the side of obviously the passengers and you know, like I mentioned in my story at 1 point way back, when in the beginning, I actually, when Uber first started work for them. And I think that one of the things that broke the business model later on was because people were giving
Kevin: aspects to the customer side, but not looking at from the driver perspective.
Kevin: so that created poor experiences for the customer. So it was sort of a double edged sword, where it fell into their into their business, because drivers then were not making enough earnings from Uber to actually upkeep their cars and maintain their vehicles. So it gave customers a more poor experience. So I think sometimes you know.
Kevin: my question is is that when we're doing these jobs to be done, we're focusing on one area like we're focusing on the restaurants. But I think it's helpful to focus on both areas, because you'll get a fuller scope of the picture.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. And if you remember in W 3 which relates to jobs to be done, I said, if you're a marketplace or like, if you have 2 sides, either you have different customers versus users, or you're just a marketplace straight up, and you have 2 sides.
Lilliana Robinson: You need to do 2 sets of jobs to be done. The reason we isolate it, Kevin, even though you're exactly correct, that it's very important to analyze those sides. We isolate it because the people on either side have unique motivations, then, can be studied in a vacuum for each side, and then for your own like journey, and what implications that makes, and what changes you make! You must take into account both sides.
Lilliana Robinson: but making it unbiased, and only doing a set of jobs to be done with one side makes the pattern recognition. We're going to talk about so much easier, so like I would caution pretty much, all of you who are 2 sided like you, Kevin, to not do any impa implications or changes to your business. As a result of the insights that you gain from just one half, you just have to hold on to those and do the other half.
Lilliana Robinson: Great point, Jayla.
Port Labs - Central Conference Room: Sorry. So just to clarify for marketplaces that are B 2 B, 2 C. We need to do a second set of jobs to be done for the in the supply side.
Lilliana Robinson: Yes, every time you have 2 stakeholders. So there are multiple ways. You would have 2 stakeholders, B to B to C, being a 2 sided marketplace like Uber, having your customers and users being 2 different things, which is basically B Twobc, like canvas, is a great example of that. If I were gonna make a competitor to canvas, I would need to be interviewing universities as well as students and users. But I would start with universities who are gonna pay me
Port Labs - Central Conference Room: so for us because we started going through the understanding, your customers checklist on base camp. So we just basically duplicate that for the supply side. And then when we get to both so supply and customers completed, then we can have a meeting with Neil.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, because, like Kevin said, it's a warning to not make did or deduce like what it implies or what implications you should draw from the insights. If you're only extracting analysis from one side.
Lilliana Robinson: you're gonna leave out a giant set of stakeholders that could
Lilliana Robinson: crash your business
Port Labs - Central Conference Room: right? Okay, thank you.
Lilliana Robinson: Kevin. Do you have another question?
Lilliana Robinson: No, I'm sorry. I just forgot to lower my hand. All good.
Lilliana Robinson: Nelson.
Nelson Mitchell: Yeah, I was. I was just gonna make the point that. That's that's where I'm stuck right now, as I need to go reach out to people on the other side of the transaction. So I'm I'm hoping to
Nelson Mitchell: squeeze in a a couple more classes just based on the complication of the payments framework.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. Well, to be clear, I'm glad I'm glad you said that to be clear, this synthesis that you're gonna present in week 5. I'm only expecting that to be from one side. So all of our companies that have to do 2 sets. They usually do the second set during growth month. So in month 2.
Lilliana Robinson: So you do not need to finish 2 sides in the next 2 weeks. You just have to analyze the one side that you're doing. Everyone's just doing one set altogether. And if you have a business model where you need to do a separate set will assist you during month 2. So you don't have to rush through the second one, just focus on one side that we chose that you're focusing on as you're learning. And the second set will go away faster because you're not gonna be learning. You'll just know how to do it.
Nelson Mitchell: Thanks.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, alright. I'm assuming you're all good cause you lowered your hand. Cool.
Lilliana Robinson: awesome. Okay? So let's go back to the mattress interview. This is a great way for us to talk about, like the social, functional, emotional in terms of the forces.
Lilliana Robinson: So who can shout out a push that you remember from the mattress interview, from Brian's struggle.
Lilliana Robinson: we're going to be talking about the mattress interview, basically for the rest of this. So try to jog your memories.
Nelson Mitchell: You couldn't sleep.
Lilliana Robinson: He couldn't sleep. He was not sleeping. So physical pain.
Lilliana Robinson: What does that sound like in terms of social, functional, emotional, melting.
Nelson Mitchell: functional.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, exactly. Let's jump. Yeah, exactly.
Lilliana Robinson: Let's jump to habit.
Lilliana Robinson: Habit is pulling you towards status quo. Can anyone shout out something that was keeping Brian toward status quo.
Malc - Xsauce: his sunken cost for the mattress here he already bought.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, sunken costs for the mattress. So is that functional, social or emotional.
Malc - Xsauce: probably emotional right. He feels like he's he's wedded to that problem or wedded to that. That choice. Sorry.
Lilliana Robinson: That's exactly right. Cause there's not actually something in the physical world like he already spent the money. And it's not like it's like a financial issue. He just feels held to that. That's why it's like a fallacy so emotional. 100
Lilliana Robinson: he learned to live with it. That's also like pretty emotional anxiety. Who can shout out an anxiety that was keeping him from switching to a new mattress.
Arthur Fields: worries. I don't know. I don't know if that's that's what I'm trying to
Lilliana Robinson: did business with his uncle. He didn't want to betray him. So he had an anxiety keeping him from going to that installation. That's a hundred percent. Right? So in those 3, we're gonna do the last one. But in those 3 we just hit 3 different motivations of energies, of motivation in the social, functional, emotional with 3 different forces.
Lilliana Robinson: So is everyone seeing how these like crisscross. They're kind of like a 4 by 3 diagram if you're into stem, and you want to visualize it in that way. Otherwise you can just think of the fact that they all can be anything like, it's basically a many to many match.
Lilliana Robinson: Lastly, Poll.
Lilliana Robinson: what what pulled him to the new solution.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. He was walking into Casco and he saw the mattress.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. And what what happened?
Port Labs - Central Conference Room: And then she decided to buy it
Lilliana Robinson: right? Well, what did he do when he saw it? Do you remember exactly in the store, like what was different?
Arthur Fields: Did he lay on it?
Lilliana Robinson: No, he touched it, so he was able to touch it.
Lilliana Robinson: Remember, he doesn't want to lay on it because he's a German phone, but he was able to touch it and just feel it so exactly like Mark saying he saw it in the store, and he was able to feel it. And that was a pull like the fact that basically all of his fears were mitigated through this poll. It gave him surety. He felt extremely secure because he was able to try it, but it also was alluring that he didn't have to lay on a a Jeremy mattress.
Lilliana Robinson: That is a lot of different motivations. Does someone want to pick one of the ones we just said, and tell me if it's social, functional, or emotional. Maybe, Mark, you can unmute again.
Port Labs - Central Conference Room: So I think the the pull is functional
Port Labs - Central Conference Room: was just just happened in the in the moment.
Lilliana Robinson: Like, in this case, it's functional, you mean.
Lilliana Robinson: Yes, in this case, this specific, yeah, exactly. I would say, that's functional, like. The mattress was literally there in the way that they had it displayed, and like advertised, he didn't have to lay on it, but they had a little thing he could feel, and then
Lilliana Robinson: like, of course, there's the whole factor that his wife was there, which is completely separate, and I would say, social, okay, cool. So that was a great exercise to see how all of these can be different. And I want you guys to keep that in mind when you're doing your synthesis.
Lilliana Robinson: So remember these principles. No one through these during job speed on Part 2. But I just want to remind everyone I'm going to fly through these because we have an exercise to get to.
Lilliana Robinson: But number one. People buy for their own reasons. So try to leave your assumptions at the door. Remember that each person is going to buy for different reasons, and all we're trying to do is identify patterns in what they tell us
Lilliana Robinson: nothing is random and everything is caused. So that's a really good point harkening back to what Ali asked. Like if they just say it's ease of use or like I don't know. It was just there. There's no such thing as an impulse buy or a random purchase. Everything is caused so like, Bob said in the chat. If if not, why, when that's how you can get it out of people. Usually
Lilliana Robinson: principle 3. The struggle creates demand. So really focusing on the energy caused by that struggling circumstance, or what Bob Messenger calls the struggling moment. That's where you're gonna find the
Lilliana Robinson: like context for your jobs to be done. Statement.
Lilliana Robinson: if you don't focus on that struggling moment, you're going to feel lost in the timeline of this person making the purchase.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay? And at the end of the day everyone's buying to make progress. So we're just trying to identify what progress they're trying to make. And how this certain switch helped them make it so that we can replicate that in our own business.
Lilliana Robinson: So
Lilliana Robinson: let's see, this is just a plot of all of the okay, let me escape and switch to the next slide.
Lilliana Robinson: I plotted everything we just talked about. But you guys got it
Lilliana Robinson: spot on. So
Lilliana Robinson: what we're going to do now is we're going to talk about
Lilliana Robinson: the mattress interview as if we are doing the analysis. So I took the liberty of making a job suite on statement that I feel represents Brian pretty well. It could be better. But this is what we're gonna go with.
Lilliana Robinson: When my wife calls me out for being cranky. After not sleeping well for 5 years, I want to stop tolerating my inadequate mattress and poor sleep, so I can give my kids more attention and ease my wife's frustration.
Lilliana Robinson: This is what I would assume represents Brian. So if I were doing the job speed on checkpoint last week, and I'm running a mattress company, and I interviewed Brian. This would be something I would have put on the board as one of my statements for an interview. I've done.
Lilliana Robinson: Bob, please.
Bob Van Dell: I don't know if there's another statement coming or not, but this feels unfairly
Bob Van Dell: unselfish or too selfless, I think.
Bob Van Dell: Personally, that's that's my take like, II think he has his own motivations. Yeah, father of the year, like well, he talks about that in the in the statement. He also, like he knows he has good sleep when he travels on, sleeps on other mattresses.
Bob Van Dell: He has his own frustrations. He goes through his own like you say he buys for his own reasons. Maybe those reasons are his own social reasons. But he also has his own functional emotional ones, too, that I don't think are a hundred percent externally motivated.
Bob Van Dell: like he's got his own shoulder and back pain, etc.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. And at the end of the day you'll have a full forces diagram for every single one you do. It's just what like Neil says, where is the energy? So you can have a different opinion of I 100 welcome it when I looked at the forces that I would plot for that mattress interview, like I said, had on the last slide. I actually wrote them all out. The one that I felt was the biggest energy was when the wife called him out.
Lilliana Robinson: He wasn't willing to do anything without that catalyst, and the fact that it was the wife calling him out for being cranky where she's basically like you need to step up. We're not gonna keep having a husband and a father who's like this. It's been like this for 5 years like you need to fix it.
Lilliana Robinson: He makes the change. So that's just what I felt was like the most energetic moment of the interview. Cause. It showed that, like what catalyzed the change. But he could be more selfish than I'm giving him credit for, and I could be, I think what they're saying is that especially this. So I can. The expected outcome is very much a
Neal Sáles-Griffin: it's it's it's
Neal Sáles-Griffin: world of that motivation.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, I mean, just
Neal Sáles-Griffin: sometimes, what could argue you wanna give your kids less attention? And like, maybe
Neal Sáles-Griffin: the the the wife frustration using isn't this high priority but like it through your lens that that's being written.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, it's very selfless. Yeah. I think I think if if I could be so blunt. I think it's what Liliana wants to see in this game right?
Lilliana Robinson: I believe in Brian
Lilliana Robinson: and his goodwill. But I'm dead. This is the funniest reaction I've ever had to this slide.
Lilliana Robinson: But basically this is a good point that you bring up of is that we all have our own biases, so maybe strive to be more in the middle and remove your own personal biases, which I clearly didn't in this slide. Alright.
Arthur Fields: I think we wanna move on. But to me, personally, I feel like this, Jtb is more aligned for someone for for a therapist, for family therapists like that, because I it's a lot much more going on other than just a a bed in in in sleep, you know, getting to sleep. So a counselor, a therapist
Neal Sáles-Griffin: at the same time, though, think about it like if you, if you can get this deep, even in the form of an ad like, why do you think these always ads exist like that are super, you know, emotional, emotive, high level. They're not even speaking to the specifics of the product or service. It's more brand related. You can use
Neal Sáles-Griffin: insights like this to craft those types of messages and set those kinds of stage.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So I agree with you on like this could get deeper therapy. But at the same time a lot of marketers can leverage these emotional forces, and it's understanding to actually reach a you know, an audience in a really compelling way.
Arthur Fields: Gotcha.
Lilliana Robinson: that's like, when you see a targeted ad that clearly they use your cookies to know more about you, and you feel like they know you on an uncomfortable level. And the thing they're saying solves a problem that you exactly have. If you've ever had that moment. That's exactly what we're trying for here, for jobs to be done.
Lilliana Robinson: Dan.
Dan Ponomarenko: I have a question. Is it the old aligned with the emotional forces.
Dan Ponomarenko: All this 3 statements.
Lilliana Robinson: I think the not sleeping well piece is functional. and I think the wife calling him out is social. and him being cranky as emotional. and then him wanting to give the kids more attention and ease. The wise frustration is both social and emotional.
Lilliana Robinson: When he talks about inadequate mattress. That's also functional.
Lilliana Robinson: But the but the purpose here isn't really to analyze, like, how great of a statement this is. I can agree with all of you like. We could workshop it and make it better. If anyone wants to give me one, I'll update the slide. But the purpose is really to show you how to do synthesis. So does anyone have questions
Lilliana Robinson: like, before I move on regarding how to draft this statement outside of the veracity of it.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, Nelson.
Nelson Mitchell: but I mean I'm I'm wondering, you know, when we when we're trying to encapsulate.
Nelson Mitchell:  something like that. The main takeaway, you know it. It feels like we're trying to tap into the strongest energy, right? Whether that is
Nelson Mitchell: the the functional lack of sleep, or whether that's the disruption to the marriage or whatever. And so I mean there is some level of
Nelson Mitchell: subjectiveness, I guess, as we as we look at it. But I think you know there could be like 3 candidates, right? Or 5 candidates like, you know, of problems. And we're trying to say, like, this is the biggest right, like all the other ones exist. But this is the one that we're gonna go build an ad campaign, or like, you know, and so you know, I
Nelson Mitchell: just, I was just thinking through like, how am I gonna evaluate stuff like? Well, I'll go for the biggest one, the most obvious sledgehammer.
Lilliana Robinson: That's that's very well set. That's exactly what I want from you guys. So when you're looking at each individual interview on the one person level, what did they
Lilliana Robinson: express? Where was the energy. When when were they the most passionately speaking? What did they repeat the most times? What was like the biggest move that they made in their lives, like caused by those are the things I look for to try and identify the strongest piece of energy. And like I act, I honestly didn't like analyze this very deeply in the way that you guys need to analyze it super deeply. So that's why it seems super subjective and like we probably could come up with a more objective statement here.
Lilliana Robinson: but for yours, wherever the most energy lies. That's what you want to extract, because there are a lot of different motivations. We call them big hires and little hires, and there are like a lot of little hires that you'll identify in your interviews, but find that big hire to try and identify the patterns we want the most energy. That's what's gonna make people most likely to buy.
Lilliana Robinson: So I love the way you said that, Nelson. So
Lilliana Robinson: you're gonna repeat this process for each interviewee. You already have done that for however many you had done up to your checkpoint presentation. So each of you have extracted at least a couple jobs to be done, statements for each interviewee.
Lilliana Robinson: I took the liberty of creating a company. So we're all gonna be part of my new company called Mattress Stars. So we're doing that. We did the mattress interview. Pretend we're Bob, and we conducted that with Brian, and we did it 6 more times. So we have a total of 7 interviewees.
Lilliana Robinson: Of course it would be better to have 10 to 15, but for the purpose of this exercise we have 7.
Lilliana Robinson: We repeated this process. We interviewed 6 more people, and we came up with jobs read on statements for those people. But first this was our screening criteria. So when we decided to start this job, speed on, set our screening criteria
Lilliana Robinson: for this round of interviews was working fathers who travel more than 8 weeks out of the year, and have bought a mattress in the last 90 days.
Lilliana Robinson: This is what we screened. We found 7 people. Brian was one of them.
Lilliana Robinson: and our learning objective here is really like, what direction should we take our new products? They are trying to come up with stars, we as a company, we're trying to come up with a new product line. We want to know how to
Lilliana Robinson: market it to people and what the product should be, what features it should have like, what direction does this specific subset of customers we've identified want?
Lilliana Robinson: So let's talk to them. What we came up with. Interviewee number 2, and it's a little small, so you might want to zoom in on your screen if you can't see this number 2.
Lilliana Robinson: So Brian was number one. This is the next guy he's what we came up with for him is when I'm renovating my house and have limited time between long work trips. I don't want to be bothered with purchasing a new mattress for my bedroom. I want to be able to quickly get a mattress that I know works without having to pick it up or try it out.
Lilliana Robinson: so I can spend the most time with my family as possible in between those work trips.
Lilliana Robinson: The next person.
Lilliana Robinson: When my limited family time gets trumped by bad flights, I want my kids to get better sleep and be less cranky, so I can spend more quality time with my wife.
Lilliana Robinson: Number 4, when I am fumbling through important meetings at my job, due to headaches, and I get home stressed every day. I want to ensure I get enough sleep throughout the week, so I can take my mind off work on the weekends and focus on spending time with my kids.
Lilliana Robinson: Number 5, when I get into a fight with my partner, and she spends the night on the couch because I'm tossing and turning. I want a mattress that helps me avoid waking her up so we can both sleep through the night uninterrupted. So he's waking her up by tossing, turning, they get in a fight. She sits on the couch. Then he buys a new mattress. Number 6.
Lilliana Robinson: When I have a child leave for college and have to adapt to a new empty nester lifestyle. I want to utilize their old room as a guest room and update their old nineties mattress, so I can host my friends and family as I transition into a new life stage, and lastly.
Lilliana Robinson: number 7, when my wife is bothered by my snoring and becomes irritable with me. I want something to help me stop snoring so I can strengthen my marriage by letting my wife sleep more peacefully in our shared bed.
Lilliana Robinson: So that was a lot. We have 7 total. There are 6 on the board here.
Lilliana Robinson: What patterns can you guys immediately identify? Maybe call out like what numbers, and tell us how you see it dance.
Port Labs - Central Conference Room: I see a lot of lot of family, almost all of them, except for 4 except for a number, for all of them are family yeah, and social energy. And that's a big part of their motivation.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. And I would go even more specifically, may check some. Some are like they're all family except one. Some are his wife, some are his children right? So it can be even deeper, too.
Lilliana Robinson: Dan.
Dan Ponomarenko: 6. I think it's pretty much like
Dan Ponomarenko: mattress is a
Dan Ponomarenko: family saver, or like marriage saver, right? So pretty much. It's all related to like family member relationship and some point. And they it's all tied to live.
Dan Ponomarenko: You know, work rest balance. Right? So
Lilliana Robinson: yeah. And it's really interesting that you guys are calling out 6 as like an oddball cause, I actually felt like 6 was extremely similar to another one. So there are, you're gonna see, there are like a myriad of dimensions that you can analyze the patterns. And it just depends what you're seeing, what you're gonna end up having each of you as one to 3 clusters.
Lilliana Robinson: It might just be one cluster. They're all perfectly aligned, all the patterns match 2 or even 3. I wouldn't go more than 3, since we're only doing 10 to 15 interviews. But you'll see how I decided to make these patterns, and you'll see how they differ from some of the stuff you guys are saying right now because we pick out different things, there's really no wrong answer. And
Lilliana Robinson: you guys will be able to go back. If you want to change the patterns that you create even in week 5, when you present Kelvin.
Kelvin Alaneme - LocumDoc: Yeah. Number one to number 4. Most of them appears to be very busy with limited time. So that limited time limited family time keeps coming up.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, that's a great. That's a great pattern here, David.
David Akinyemi (he/him): yeah, I was, gonna say, kind of what you're saying about number 6 with number 2. I saw like, kind of like the renovation or kinda like, it was almost like home projects that wanted to be started.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, I noticed that, too.
David Akinyemi (he/him): Yeah, go ahead. Oh, no, that was it. That was it. That's what like stick out to me.
Lilliana Robinson: That's exactly what stuck out to me from 2 and 6, David. I'm glad you said that. But do you see how other people saw? 2 as being the same as a bunch of others, and 6 being on a lone island? So there are many different ways that we could draw patterns here, and there's really no right or wrong answer. It's just what we decide to go after.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And Meliana unfortunately have to. I have to jump out for a call. But I'll just wanna say one last thing as you hear from everyone else, which is like literally what you all are doing right now by weighing in and looking at the statements is effectively the process of synthesis that you would do
Neal Sáles-Griffin: post your like interviews and clustering. So you have these statements. You're in a room with your team, maybe with me, too. We're looking at these statements on a whiteboard or on a visual somehow. And we're having a discussion of where we're seeing the overlap.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This is actually how it works right now, like. So Lilian is effectively guiding you all through what the process should be.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: See ya tomorrow.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, bye. Now. Antonio or Ali.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Actually David just alluded to it. I was a little bit confused by interview. 6. Because I couldn't see the pattern there as if it was time, or what it was because they wanted a mattress that
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: others talk about quality of sleep. This one didn't. But now I see the relationship with 2 more like.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: I want this to happen in a moment in time.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, David, did you wanna respond, Alan?
David Akinyemi (he/him): Oh, no, II had another question.
Bob Van Dell: I wanted to respond.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, go ahead, Bob.
Bob Van Dell: II literally did this with my guest room is my wife and I had an old crappy mattress. and then we finally bought a house, and then we got a new mattress for our guest room, because we wanted our guests to
Bob Van Dell: kind of have like a nice sort of hotel experience when they came to visit like they got their own room. They got their own bathroom right next to the kitchen, and all that, but, like the mattress, decision was deliberately
Bob Van Dell: high quality, not just some. It's just a guest room.
Bob Van Dell: Cheap pizza junk.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, I love that. Maybe you are. We'll never know.
Lilliana Robinson: David.
David Akinyemi (he/him): Yeah, how do you go about
David Akinyemi (he/him): again, like not throwing in your
David Akinyemi (he/him): feature set
David Akinyemi (he/him): when it comes to clustering like. I think this is easy for us, because none of us are building out mattresses. And so it's like, almost so objective. But like
David Akinyemi (he/him): any ways that you maybe could like suggest, like we put in practice to make sure we're not like.
David Akinyemi (he/him): Oh, this cluster is the feature I'm building, and this cluster is another feature we're already building kind of thing.
Lilliana Robinson: It shouldn't be features at all. We're thinking about the circumstances that they're in. So we're not. Do you see that most
Lilliana Robinson: pretty much? Everyone everyone who noticed a pattern did not talk about what the person needed. They just talked about the circumstance they were in. So
Lilliana Robinson: put out of your head all of your own features. What you're trying to build honestly, just pretend, like you're not even building anything right now. And you're only analyzing the people who you talked to.
Lilliana Robinson: You're not trying to analyze it in terms of what should Tux do that comes later? This is not part of your company. Honestly, you should think of this as a completely separate side project
Lilliana Robinson: has nothing to do with Tux, cause we're just learning about the problem space.
Lilliana Robinson: And when you're clustering, it's really helpful to not think. What do the people need? We're not thinking like, Oh, these 3 need this this product or this feature, and that's why they should be together. It's these 2 are in this situation. You you even said it, David. You said 2 and 6 are renovating their house, or like making changes in their house. You didn't talk about what they need. So we're not talking about any features. So you're already on a good track.
Lilliana Robinson: I would just try really hard to
Lilliana Robinson: separate, compartmentalize what you know, you're building in your business, and we're working on the business with this. This is like a research project, completely separate
Lilliana Robinson: art.
Arthur Fields: So would you say that like it's kinda hard to like, not
Arthur Fields: guide them towards
Arthur Fields: responses. That's like your business. When the tone is already set in the search criteria. That kind of aligns with your business, you know, and then the questions that you ask may
Arthur Fields: be similar, like a discovery question. Almost, you know.
Arthur Fields: II kind of struggle with that. It's just me being vulnerable here.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, let's talk about it. So what was your screening criteria?
Arthur Fields: It was looking for small business owners or startups
Arthur Fields: that have recently off
Arthur Fields: well, have recently
Arthur Fields: hired a agency to conduct your first screen round screenings and stuff like that. So yeah, that was it. And essentially, that's our business, you know.
Lilliana Robinson: Yes. So when you started asking them, were you asking them specifically about their personal experience, hiring the thing that they hired like. Did you keep it in a box? I know it's hard, but that's what I would caution
Lilliana Robinson: if you start asking questions that would apply to your business. I can imagine you're straying away from the timeline of the specific purchase that they made.
Arthur Fields: Yeah. So a lot of the questions.
Arthur Fields: We're around like they're experiencing like when they did it and why they did it. But a lot of the responses were a lot of it was a very professional right, like what what you may want to hear in a job interview, almost. And it's like kinda happened to like. No, I don't wanna hear about that like I wanna hear about like, how did it make you feel like, how did that impact you personally? Things like that. Just to kinda
Arthur Fields: make them really think about like, okay, how did it impact your work life balance where you working? You know late things of that nature and trying not to like. Have my biases creep in because of. I work in this space of recruiting, you know. So it was very challenging for us to kind of like.
Arthur Fields: keep it. Non, our product, you know, based questions.
Lilliana Robinson: 100%, I think. Yeah, sorry.
Arthur Fields: No, no, go ahead. I'm sorry.
Lilliana Robinson: I think everyone on this call can relate to that. So what you're describing is what people face every single time. But from what you're saying, it sounds like you guys are on a great track, and the more refs you get in the more comfortable you'll get with the interviewee, the more you'll be able to get them to open up and tell you even more and get past that like formality stage. Because I'm sure you guys are nervous, too. I used to be when I was trying to do these interviews, and the more natural it becomes for you, the more the person will start opening up, and then it'll you'll be able to get even deeper.
Lilliana Robinson: But what you're describing everyone faces it's really hard to set like, get out of our own skin, and then, like, set aside the biases of knowing the business, knowing the space really well.
Lilliana Robinson: setting aside all the assumptions we have, a lot of, you have worked in this problem space for a year, if not multiple years. And now we're going back as if we don't know anything, and like playing dumb and trying to reset all of our knowledge. So thank you for sharing that art, because I'm pretty sure everyone feels that way. It's completely normal. It's just a learning curve. This is a brand new thing, I think, as you continue doing interviews, you'll see even more success.
Lilliana Robinson: Does. Does that make sense?
Lilliana Robinson: No, yes, it did it did like, I literally have to reset my mind like, I've never lived into space before. So it's hard. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Cause you have these assumptions. But the assumptions were based not on it wasn't grounded in specific like customer discovery work that we did right. So that's why it's good to go back and address them, and a lot of your assumptions will be correct. But some of them won't be correct, and those key ones we find that we're incorrect preconceived notions are going to be thing that makes it breaks your business. So that's why we start with this.
Arthur Fields: Got it? Thanks.
Bob Van Dell: Yeah. I want to say, thanks art, for being vulnerable.
Bob Van Dell: I also feel like
Bob Van Dell: in my past experience. The
Bob Van Dell: default mode I'm in is a lot more analytical. It seems like you're also the kind of guy who can quickly get to solution when a problem is presented to you. And I found, like the kind of folks who can easily
Bob Van Dell: read between the lines, or ask the sort of questions
Bob Van Dell: to kind of get to the emotional. Why's behind the why's like they're giving you the first wise and then getting to the root of the why's behind the wise. I think that's like a extremely rare skill set, which I think is part of why we're learning how to do it in this framework. But
Bob Van Dell: one of the things I've taken away when I've gotten coaching on this in the past is focusing less on what they say
Bob Van Dell: and trying to dive deeper on
Bob Van Dell: a little bit of how they're saying it, but also asking completely different questions that aren't even getting to the response I want. They're they're more, I mean, they're not giving me the sort of like transactional type questions like, we know why we're here. We know why we're meeting. I screened you as like a potential interviewee for a reason. But then, like
Bob Van Dell: the things I really care about are the things behind? Why, you did show up in my criteria. How did you get to be qualified on those specific terms? And then understanding what's behind those that's like, I think
Bob Van Dell: it's not even like twice as hard as like 3 times harder. And so I think it's fair to say
Bob Van Dell: we're all gonna struggle with it until we get to some level of proficiency. But there are people out there, and these are like the folks who are like Titans of industry or Titans of sales or stuff who eventually figured out. But I don't think anyone knows it.
Bob Van Dell: By default.
Lilliana Robinson: It's really well, said Bob. Thank you both Art and Bob for sharing Neil always calls this like a muscle. So you guys are like working out. You're like in the gym trying to figure out how to do this, and like soon the muscle will grow, and it'll be much easier like how Neil did it on the spot for you guys.
Lilliana Robinson: So just stick with it. If everyone could do this and gain like valuable customer insights, then everyone would win. But startup. Game is really hard, and it's hard for a reason. And so, if we can practice code, I guarantee all of you will be that much more successful.
Lilliana Robinson: So are we good to continue with how to cluster. Let me see how we are in time.
Lilliana Robinson: Are you doing? Well?
Lilliana Robinson: Perfect?
Lilliana Robinson: Okay. So you guys identified some patterns? Here are the patterns I identified. And it's not right or wrong. This is just what I did. But I'm giving you an example. Walk me through what you're gonna do for your business and your set. So we have our 7. I looked at them, thought about them, looked at the forces that I had for them, and then identified the following clusters. So I put 2 and 6 together, like we discussed in depth 3 and 4 I put together, and I'll get into why, and then 5 and 7.
Lilliana Robinson: I arguably could have done just 2 clusters, and you'll see
Lilliana Robinson: the 2 that could be combined. But in my opinion things were different enough that I could put them in a different one.
Lilliana Robinson: It's all about how much you guys want to put together versus like have no common, no differences within your clusters. It's much easier when you only have a couple of clusters. So I would like err on the side of having like 2. But this. These are the 3 I came up with. So you're going to decide you're gonna link them together. And then for each cluster you identify, you're going to write a conglomerated or an aggregated job.
Lilliana Robinson: So here are the 3 I came up with. So interview 1, 2, 3, or 1, 3, 4
Lilliana Robinson: I made when I am having emotional struggles within my children, due to lack of sleep, I want to increase rest by purchasing a new, more comfortable mattress, so I can improve the quality of my limited time at home with my family. So, as you can see, I broke up the problems with the children and the problems with the white.
Lilliana Robinson: But you don't have to. If you guys wanted to make that one, you could put cluster one and 2 together and 3 could be separate. So you see how that's kind of subjective, and it's up to you. It's much more an art and not a science
Lilliana Robinson: plus or 2, 5 and 7, when my partner and I disrupt each other's sleep at night, and it causes tension in our marriage. I want to update our sleeping arrangements specifically to stop this issue. So I can improve our sleep quality and enter in our relationship. So if we go back to 5 and 7,
Lilliana Robinson: 5 is when they fought because he tosses interns at night. 7 is when she was bothered by him snoring. So they're both kind of like a medical issue that is upsetting the spouse, and has not a lot to do with the children. So in my head I saw those as their own cluster. If I were gonna market to a working father who travels basically my screening criteria. I would think that the cluster 2 folks would want to see a completely different ad in the cluster one. But I can also see how they're similar enough. Where, if we wanted to go, one layer more vague, they could be together
Lilliana Robinson: for cluster 3. These people fall into my screening criteria just like the others, but they had a completely different circumstance.
Lilliana Robinson: So what I came up with for them is when my family is going through a transition, or we could even call it like a house transition. I want a quick and easy way to obtain a comfortable mattress that fits the new requirements of the space, so I can begin utilizing the new room in line with my family's new requirements as quickly as possible.
Lilliana Robinson: A great example here is in the I want. If I were building a product, if I already knew, I wanted to build a product that, like helped people decide on what mattress to get in a new space. Maybe I made a feature where they have, like 3D. Imaging and project the bed in the room and see it. It would be really tempting to put that here like I want an app that sh! That will show me the bed in the space so that I don't have to
Lilliana Robinson: like gifts. But we didn't do that. There's a reason we didn't, because we want to be a lot more unbiased. We're not inserting what we want to build. We're just talking about what the person wants. So in this situation, both of those people
Lilliana Robinson: want it to be quick, easy. They want it to fit the space, and they want to begin utilizing the new room as fast as possible.
Lilliana Robinson: Does anyone have questions about these clusters.
Bob Van Dell: I kind of had one takeaway earlier when these were all listed top to bottom. One of the
Bob Van Dell: potentially different ways of clustering that I saw is one is more
Bob Van Dell: rare yet important life event based kids going to college, just moving in, etc. And others are more
Bob Van Dell: social pressure or things that we're more likely to tolerate, and then eventually run out of patience with
Bob Van Dell: oriented like
Bob Van Dell: don't want to sleep on the couch anymore. Don't want to annoy my wife because
Bob Van Dell: her battery for tolerating snoring is getting low. I thought, like, maybe there's like a theme there.
Lilliana Robinson:  maybe I'm thinking too much about AI and machine learning.
Lilliana Robinson: Maybe. No, I don't. Not at all. I think I think that's completely right. So what would be an example of a marketing implication you could make if we put the enough is enough people together like, what would you put? What ad would you run?
Bob Van Dell: Yeah, that will that that for that one. It'd be more emotional.
Bob Van Dell: triggering basis like I'd love to. I mean, I'm not a creative like that. I got my own media company. But I'm not a creative in that sense of like coming up with scripts and in like a storyboard or anything but like, I would imagine someone might put together a scene where.
Bob Van Dell: you know, they're obviously running the patients. There's yelling, it's very emotionally triggering, and then it's the bed's fault.
Lilliana Robinson: Something simple like that. But like
Bob Van Dell: that sort of line of thinking
Lilliana Robinson: is is kind of. I don't know if I'm answering your question anymore. Yes, no, you are. That, was it? So? This is great, Boba. Thank you for kind of intellectually sparring with me, because this is what you guys should be doing within your team when someone presents like, oh, maybe it should be clustered this way. One way I think of it is well. Could I come up with a way to either build the product in a certain way or market to these people. In a certain way, marketing is easier because it's more intuitive
Lilliana Robinson: that would cover everyone in that cluster. And I think the answer for that that Bob just gave me an answer is, yes, so we could do like 1, 3, 4,
Lilliana Robinson: and 6,
Lilliana Robinson: no. 1, 3, 4, 5, and 7 altogether, and we could come up with something that would cover them all and be intriguing to them. So I think that's a very valid cluster. And then you actually clustered. Yeah, go ahead.
Bob Van Dell: I was gonna say to your point, like the first time I saw this I was doing what you were asking, but you caught me off guard, cause you asked about everything but 2 and 6, and I was primarily thinking about. Oh, you know, it'd be a cool commercial, for a mattress company is. Kids are going off to college, or you just moved in. And now it's time to buy a mattress. I think that's relatable. I'm I'm not saying the other stuff, is it? But like it seemed like lower hanging fruit to me.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, and see. So when you get to here. So you would put 2 and 6 together in question 3 anyways, like the same. But you would do it for a different reason. So maybe your Jtvd statement would be a lot more focused around when I'm going through a big life event like I said through a transition. But maybe we would call it that, and then you would come up with something that would market to them.
Lilliana Robinson: It sounds like if this was your company. If you were mattress stars, you feel that there is a lot more energy in Cluster 3, and that's the one you would choose to go after. So I'm sure a lot of you have the question like, Okay, what happens after I have 1, 2, and 3. So that was awesome. Bob, thank you for being an example.
Lilliana Robinson: What happens after I have 1, 2, and 3. It's up to you guys, what do you want to do? Sometimes there's low-hanging fruit. Sometimes it's oh, I can easily capture that cluster by making XYZ. Change, or just running this ad.
Lilliana Robinson: Sometimes it's do we want to just pivot the whole business, because cluster one is clearly where the most energy is. It's morphine. People are like dying to have this solved. And we're not currently catering to them
Lilliana Robinson: cause. That's what a lot of our companies have done in the past. After John's be done. They realize there's this cluster that is just screaming to be served so they'll pivot to to help them. It's up to you, maybe Cluster 2 is already who you're serving, and you just have better insight. So now you know how to target them even better. It's completely up to you. But this is the like dashboard of insights I want you guys to have.
Lilliana Robinson: and when you do the Y before the Y, each one should be supported by that set of evidence, the 4 forces, the motivation, the current competitors, or existing alternatives. And the
Lilliana Robinson: so that's really all I have for you. I'm going to give you some examples. But I'll take some questions now. Christy.
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: Well, yeah, when I look at the clusters, I see like the different stages, right? So there's a couple no kids, and then they have kids, and then then empty nesters.
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: How how do we?
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: How do we factor that in like or or does it matter like
Lilliana Robinson: is that? Is that is that a
Lilliana Robinson: well, it's only about circumstance, so it only has
Lilliana Robinson: it only has merit in as much as the circumstances the same. So the empty nesters are actually going with a a guy that has a whole family, but he just happens to be renovating his house because the situations actually line up perfectly. They both have this extra room that they want to furnish with the mattress
Lilliana Robinson: that has nothing to do with the demographic of being like an older couple? Younger couple. Do I have kids. Do I not have kids? Those 2 like Bob said. He can think of a commercial that perfectly markets to those 2 guys, even though they're in completely different life stages. They're in the same circumstance.
Lilliana Robinson: Ali.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: yeah. So
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: for for those of us who are B 2 B, 2 C, so we need to do different stakeholders.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med:  II understand that. You know we can start thinking of features or ads, or kind of like a redirection, but for any pivot. My intuition tells me I need to study all the stakeholders rather than just rushing
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: making people. We thought all of that. What would be the advice there.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, I mean, I did this without thinking of that. That was just a trick I was giving you guys. That's something we teach our undergrads to do. You guys should be able to recognize patterns based on the person's circumstances like, without thinking about implications or future things. You would do like, I identified the following patterns just like you guys did. We had a whole discussion about it. No one was talking about like what we might do with them. You guys were just talking about the similarities you're seeing. So I would just do it based on the job scenes that you have and the interviews that you did.
Lilliana Robinson: you'll be able to
Lilliana Robinson: Antonio.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: yeah, I have a follow up question also, if you go back to the clusters.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: so and maybe you said that II just didn't didn't understand it correctly. But to me, like these 3 cluster deals talk about the same product, which is a con comfortable mattress, and it's almost seems like the the only difference is the the marketing message that I'm gonna put on my landing page or the target customers I'm gonna address. But the product is the same.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: So why would you? What would we call it? Peopleing in this case? Because it's the same product
Lilliana Robinson: I want to challenge that, though, because is the product, the same. Because I see 3 different products here. Yeah, Bob, people have different reasons to buy. We, we, I think.
Bob Van Dell: And what was the Neil said that earlier?
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. And the different reasons to buy directly informed what the product should be. So I see. So you understand the difference in the marketing for these 3
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Antonio? Right? So for the marketing. But ultimately the product is the same, isn't it? I mean, is it comfortable.
Lilliana Robinson: is it, though? Because it sounds like cluster? One is very important. It's very important to him for it to be comfortable.
Lilliana Robinson: Clustered? 2. What were their problems. If you go back to 5 and 7, number 5, he's tossing and turning. So it sounds like he has an issue number 7. He's snoring, which is also an issue. I would probably call it a medical issue.
Lilliana Robinson: I want to update our sleeping arrangements specifically to stop the issue. Does that sound like just a comfortable mattress cause to me that sounds like, oh, if we want to cater to this group, we're going to come up with
Lilliana Robinson: movement, isolation we're gonna come up with, like
Lilliana Robinson: the inclined mattress, to stop the snoring like. I can think of a lot of product implications that could come from cluster 2. That would be different than cluster one, then cluster, 3 outside of it being a mattress cluster. 3 is so much more about how you're buying the mattress so like Bob said, why they buy so yeah, they want a comfortable mattress, but their main thing is that they wanted to fit the requirements of the space, and for it to be quick and easy. If your Member Number 2 said, I don't want to be bothered with going and trying it out or having to pick it up.
Lilliana Robinson: So number 3 is a lot more about how to buy it. So I can imagine a product for Number 3 could be the same literal mattress as Number one. But you would need to change your product. Maybe you can see the mattress in the space. Maybe you do delivery to the house, like, maybe you're one of the only mattress companies that like brings it straight there within a few days of doing direct to consumer online. Do you see how like the product could change in many different ways based on the clusters?
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Yeah, yeah, yeah, that makes sense. Thank you.
Lilliana Robinson: Cool, Dan.
Dan Ponomarenko: So with the statements we almost like summarize like the series of interview in like multiple clusters. Should we try to summarize the forces in one
Dan Ponomarenko: diagram to see the pattern.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, and not even a diagram. I want like a write up. So I'm gonna show you some examples. But and I'll post some examples later, because we're running out of time. But like basically, each cluster should just be one page. Give me the job. See done. Statement
Lilliana Robinson: right. The forces just give one liner like really quick. This is supposed to be an aggregation, so you will have all the evidence on the back end. But I want you to summarize it and synthesize it into one document.
Dan Ponomarenko: So basically clusters summarize the with the with the all ingredients, right forces.
Lilliana Robinson: So for each job suite on statements says takes cluster one. I would have these 4 bullet points
Lilliana Robinson: to support, cluster one, and then I would do it again with clusters 2 and 3.
Lilliana Robinson: Thank you for clarifying. That's a great question. Okay? So now
Snow Lee / Runbear: it's it's a little bit, I mean it's not about the cluster, but sub. So some of our interviews. They can be clustered as a consultancy
Snow Lee / Runbear: who works for their own customers
Snow Lee / Runbear: so they can use our product to fulfill their end customers in the case. Do we need to reach out to the end customers?
Snow Lee / Runbear: It's a little bit tricky for me. I think we'll have to work with you on a one on one basis. I if if you've identified a second group of stakeholders, might, I would lean toward. Yes, but I want to know more about your situation. So just for the sake of time, we'll we'll have to talk separately. Maybe you can schedule time with me and Kate, and we'll like, dive into it with you.
Snow Lee / Runbear: Okay, thanks.
Lilliana Robinson: Cool, Allie. I'm gonna hunt your question until the end. Just so I can show you guys examples before we run out of time. But I'll stay on to answer questions.
Lilliana Robinson: So let's look at some. Why, before the y's just so you guys know, this is extremely confidential. Jake has asked us not to share this outside of programs. So make sure that you keep this between us. But this is Jake's. Why, before the why.
Lilliana Robinson: so before, why they buy. There's why they shop.
Lilliana Robinson: and he gives a preamble from Jason freeze article, which I'll show you. But these are the clusters Jake came up with. Remember, this is like Duolingo for cooking. He's talking about people who have signed up for cooking apps or signed up for his specifically, and these are what he came up with. So one is, there's got to be a better way to spend my time.
Lilliana Robinson: So this is people feeling incompetent. This is people scrolling on Tiktok, watching reality. TV. They are fearful. They're squandering their time when they're free. But they don't know what to do. The more nights that pass, the more useless they feel. They're spending time with content instead of on themselves.
Lilliana Robinson: Number 2. I don't offer enough to the people I care about. This is someone who feels like they're a taker and not a giver.
Lilliana Robinson: They feel like a significant other cooks for them every night, or their friends constantly host them over for dinner, and they never give back, so they worry that it might build to a breaking point and they need to gain a skill to be able to care for their loved ones. The way that they care about this person.
Lilliana Robinson: Number 3. I need to stop eating bad food. This is people who just keep ordering uber eats. They, you know, have microbial food, fast food. People who just aren't able to get like healthy food on demand if they're not cooking it themselves, and it's a lack of agency, and they just it comes unbearable because they feel so bad about themselves, they feel so unhealthy. Maybe it's resulted in some health issues.
Lilliana Robinson: and they know I've eaten great food before. When I cook it tastes terrible, and so they need something that gets a great meal in front of them, but also tastes good.
Lilliana Robinson: Number 4. How can I get my friends to hang out with me.
Lilliana Robinson: So this one it's different than the not giving back. Those people think that their friends are insignificant. Other are gonna like, break up with them. This person is, I'm maybe I move to a new city. Maybe I have some friends, but I don't hang up with them enough. I want to learn to cook so that I can have a thriving social life.
Lilliana Robinson: These are usually people who recently graduated from college and are now experiencing a loss of friendship where it was like bubbling and blooming all the time. They're in their social life before. And now things are different. So maybe if I start cooking, loneliness will turn into independence. Maybe my friends will make the trip across town to try new recipes.
Lilliana Robinson: So these are the 4 that Jake. like sectioned off and identified. And they ended up going after. There's got to be a better way to spend my time.
Lilliana Robinson: And the people that are eating bad food, because that's where the biggest energy was. So this one was an extreme push. People are eating terrible food. They feel terrible about themselves. Number One had the most people and they had a really great Cmo, they still do. And they know that if they marketed to these people that are like just scrolling on tick, tap, they would be able to capture them. So those were the 2 reasons they chose one and 3. They didn't
Lilliana Robinson: get rid of 2 and 4. They just went after one and 3 during tech stars. I'm sure they've looked back around to try and capture more. If you guys remember the diffusion of innovation curve. So you can always expand your niche. But they started with one and 3,
Lilliana Robinson: and they were able to do really well. So they used a lot of marketing ploys to capture these people that are spending their nights scrolling by using words that the interviewees in this cluster spoke. So when you speak the customer's language, it resonates, and it worked because a lot more people started converting onto their app.
Lilliana Robinson: and then for Number 3, they directly changed the product
Lilliana Robinson: as a result of the things that these people said. So, instead of having a bunch of like dessert recipes and things like that, they focus on the fundamentals. How do I cook good food that tastes good? Let's teach you. So they taught them about seasoning. They taught them about searing things that make the food taste really good without adding a whole lot of extra calories.
Lilliana Robinson: The second thing I want to show you guys before we wrap is Jason freed article, and I'm gonna follow up with all of this stuff. But lastly, this is what sparked it all.
Lilliana Robinson: and Neil already gave you guys a foreshadowing of this. But if you remember these little icons, the clusters that base camp came up with, and then directly changed their product and their pricing model. As a result, we can't keep working like this. This is people who have have had something bad really happen. In their lives. As a result of their work. Life being chaotic, they don't know. They missed meetings. It feels overwhelming, and they just feel like their hair is on fire.
Lilliana Robinson: The next one is, we can't mess up like that again. This is the people that lost a client due to a miscommunication and not being organized as a team, they look at each other, and they just say we're not going to survive. If we if we mess up like that again.
Lilliana Robinson: Number 3, this project isn't getting off the ground. Those are people that are trying and trying to make progress, and is just not working, and it gets it hits a breaking point. So rather than losing a client or feeling like their hair is on fire. They're annoyed that they're trying to make progress, and it feels like they're dragging something through the mud.
Lilliana Robinson: Number 4. How am I going to pull this off? This is someone who has a new promotion, a new giant project, as you can see from the
Lilliana Robinson: icon here.
Lilliana Robinson: and they just feel intimidated, and they don't know what they're gonna do. So they know they need to seek a new solution if they're gonna succeed here. Yeah, Neil.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and as you can see, none of these speak to the
Neal Sáles-Griffin: features or aspects of the product itself at Base camp.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This is about the people and their situations and their struggling moments and their needs.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: The features and functionality of base camp are implied in those needs, though right.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: You can make the connection for why, it's relevant.
Lilliana Robinson: Sorry I will follow up with the 2 things I just showed you as long as you keep Jake's thing internal. Just promise me that, and then I'll show you, Jason free article that I just shared along with some of my favorite examples of why, before the wise turn the past few cohorts, because we've had some really good ones. So I'll show you guys those the ones from the past few cohorts will include the evidence that I require to have that in the presentation. And then you guys are gonna do this in person in week, 5 or virtual, if you're not coming.
Lilliana Robinson: And in the meantime just keep doing your interviews. Think about how you want to synthesize in the end, just start recognizing patterns. And then Kate is available. Even though she has moved to Europe as of today. She's available to have a lot of mentor sessions with you guys so still use her. She really wants to be involved as a resource. As you guys are doing this. This is her favorite part.
Lilliana Robinson: So with that, thanks for all your participation. This was awesome. I'm gonna stay on for questions. But this is one of the most fruitful synthesis workshops I've ever had. So I really appreciate everyone who spoke up and participated.
Lilliana Robinson: Let me know if I can help you with anything else. But I'll stop the recording now.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Thank you.